>> Kyle Simpson: So what we wanna do is we
wanna get to that idea of the shapes being
equal with each other.
Here I have an isOdd function.
It's pretty straightforward.
It uses the modular operator.
So any value module 02,
if it returns us one,
that means it was an odd number, if it
returns to 0, it was even number, okay?
Very basic math concept there.
But if I wanted to find
the isEven function,
there's a couple of ways
that I could have done it.
I could have said isEven and on line 6,
I could have said, v mod 2 == 0.
>> Kyle Simpson: And
that would work just fine.
It's mathematically accurate to
say that isEven is v mod 2 = 0.
But I did it a little differently,
I defined the isEven in
terms of the isOdd function.
And specifically, I negated it
because we have a binary here,
something is either even or
odd, it's not not both and
it's not neither, it's either
a number is either even or it's not.
So, I'm asking the question here,
if I take this isEven function and
I define it in terms of isOdd.
As opposed to doing just v mod 2 = 0.
What have I purchased with that choice?
What benefit am I getting from
defining isEven in terms of isOdd?
And the answer I would say is,
I have created a more visible
relationship between the two functions.
I have said that isEven
is the negation of isOdd.
Whereas if I just done v mod 2 = 0,
that relationship would exist but
it would be completely non obvious.
Here I am attempting to
make it more obvious,
the relationship between isOdd and isEven
by defining one in terms of the other.
So it's not just about saving keystrokes,
a lot of times you hear people say well I
[SOUND] dry, don't repeat yourself, right?
That might be why a lot of people would
justify dry, don't repeat yourself.
I'm not saying that there
isn't benefit there.
Being unnecessarily repetitive can
sometimes hamper the readability
of a program.
But actually it turns out,
sometimes in functional programming,
it is better to be repetitive.
So we don't want to take dry as like
a religious artifact, like I have to have
every certain thing written only once and
everything is using the generic, whatever.
That's not always the best.
Here, we're not doing, isEven in terms of
isOdd because we want to save a few
characters of the modulo operator.
Because we wanna make it obvious
that there's a relationship,
a negation relationship between the two.
And by thinking that way,
we actually got ourselves 90% of the way
to being able to answer this question
which is, could I define the isEven
function in a point freeway?
Could I define it in terms of isOdd
without having to list out that
v that's being passed in
because there's the point.
This is a pointed definition and we're
asking, could I define it point free?
Before I even show you how to do
the point free, we probably should have
motivated why, what is the point of point
free, like what what are we buying there?
Well what we're doing is we're
moving to that declarative style.
When we have points,
what we have is an imperative style that
routes data from an input to an input.
But when we use point free style,
we have a declarative thing.
Here's a strange phenomenon
that I've seen with
the idea between imperative and
declarative.
Because the words themselves, the physical
letters in those words, to me,
imply that imperative would be implicit,
since the words seem the same.
But it turns out that it's reverse.
It turns out that imperative code
is generally more explicit and
declarative code is
generally more implicit.
Now, you stop any,
100 software developers somewhere and
you ask them the question is it better for
a code to be explicit or implicit,
99 out of 100 are gonna tell
you it's better to be explicit.
And what we're actually suggesting
here is that in some senses,
it's better to be implicit.
It's better to be declarative and
allow the existing Lego pieces that are in
our application, either in the language or
in our libraries to handle
those unnecessary details.
Because it's not important for
the reader of this code to see v on
line five being passed on line six.
That is an unnecessary detail.
If I can define this in a point
free array, I free up the reader to
glance at and realize, okay,
isEven is the negation of isOdd.
So how are we gonna accomplish that?
If you can agree with me that it is
beneficial from a readability perspective,
how are we gonna accomplish it?
We're gonna accomplish
it by creating a utility
that adapts the shape of a function,
exactly like we did before with HOF.
We're gonna make another HOF.
Actually, we don't need to invent one,
one already exists.
I'm just going to tell you about it.
Let's think about a HOF,
a Higher Order Function called not.
This is by the way,
often referred to as complement in
functional programming libraries.
I don't like that name, that confuses me.
So I like to use not.
Sometimes I use negate,
sometimes I use not.
I almost never use complement.
But anyway, if you're looking it up,
you'll find it,
it's called complement in for
something like.
But what it does is it takes
the function fn, line 1,
it makes a new function that's negated,
line 2, and all it does is
call the original underlying function with
all the inputs and return the outputs.
But it does line 3, that little
exclamation mark, it negates it.
So now, when I declare isEven,
I simply call this
Higher Order Function utility not and
I pass in isOdd.
And what I would argue is not
only is line 11 less to read and
mentally juggle, cuz I don't need to see
the function calling another function,
passing the parameters, but
it is even more clearer the relationship
between isOdd and isEven now, right?
You can very clearly see
that isOdd is the negation,
that isEven is the negation of isOdd,
that's where we get the readability
gains in functional programming and
specifically in point freestyle.
You define one function
in terms of another,
you make the relationship
between them much more clear.
You allow the how, the imperative
details to be implicitly hidden
through a declarative style of coding.
>> Kyle Simpson: That's the big takeaway
from all the functional programming,
you could almost stop,
right here at the and just get that and
you've gotten a huge nugget of wisdom
out of functional programming.
That's the key idea.